The President:
This weekend, I'm traveling to Toronto to meet the members of
the G20.
There, I hope we can build on
the progress we made at last
year's G20 summits by
coordinating our global
financial reform efforts to make
sure a crisis like the one from
which we are still recovering
never happens again.
We've made great progress towards passing such a reform
here at home.
As I speak, we are on the
cusp of enacting the toughest
financial reforms since
the Great Depression.
I don't have to tell you why
these reforms are so important.
We're still digging ourselves
out of an economic crisis that
happened largely because there
wasn't strong enough oversight
on Wall Street.
We can't build a strong economy
in America over the long-run
without ending this status quo,
and laying a new foundation for
growth and prosperity.
That's what the Wall Street
reforms currently making their
way through Congress
will help us do --
reforms that represent 90% of
what I proposed when I took up this fight.
We'll put in place the strongest
consumer financial protections
in American history, and create
an independent agency with an
independent director and an
independent budget to enforce them.
Credit card companies will no
longer be able to mislead you
with pages and
pages of fine print.
You will no longer be subject
to all kinds of hidden fees and
penalties, or the predatory
practices of unscrupulous lenders.
Instead, we'll make sure credit
card companies and mortgage
companies play by the rules.
And you'll be empowered with
easy-to-understand forms,
and the clear and concise
information you need to make the
financial decisions that are
best for you and your family.
Wall Street reform will also
strengthen our economy in a
number of other ways.
We'll make our financial system
more transparent by bringing the
kinds of complex trades that
helped trigger this crisis --
trades in a $600 trillion
derivatives market --
finally into the light of day.
We'll enact what's called the
Volcker Rule to make sure banks
protected by safety nets like
the FDIC can't engage in risky
trades for their own profit.
We'll create what's called a
resolution authority to help
wind down firms whose collapse
would threaten our entire
financial system.
Put simply, we'll end the days
of taxpayer-funded bailouts,
and help make sure Main Street
is never again held responsible
for Wall Street's mistakes.
Beyond these reforms, we also
need to address another piece of
unfinished business.
We need to impose a fee on the
banks that were the biggest
beneficiaries of taxpayer
assistance at the height of our
financial crisis -- so we can recover every dime of taxpayer money.
Getting this far on Wall Street
reform hasn't been easy.
There are those who've fought it
tooth and nail to preserve the
status quo.
In recent months, they've spent
millions of dollars and hired an
army of lobbyists to stop
reform dead in its tracks.
But because we refused to
back down, and kept fighting,
we now stand on the
verge of victory.
And I urge Congress to take
us over the finish line,
and send me a reform
bill I can sign into law,
so we can empower our people
with consumer protections,
and help prevent a financial
crisis like this from ever
happening again.